hey how's it going guys this is Dave 2d
so a few months ago I did a video on the
asus ux305 0-1 and at the time never
bothered making a separate video for it
just because a lot of the technical
specs and even the design aesthetics are
very similar between the two but
recently ACS put a really important
patch for the g50 one and I thought I
should make its own video now this is a
really brief video I'm just going to
highlight some of the more important
differences between the 2 as well as
just give you my overall thoughts on the
g50 one all right let's do it I'm going
to start with a quick unboxing here
because well the box itself is different
between the two so everything inside is
basically the same but the one
extradition in the g50 one is that ACS
gives you a free ROG Mouse now the most
obvious difference is the finish the
aluminum is anodized black and on the
top there's a distinct Republic of
gamers logo so this is the asus rog line
it also has a brush to linear finish
instead of the radial finish on the UX
5:01 something i noticed pretty early on
though is that things like fingerprints
smudges and dust like we just show up
very readily on this block finish like
very readily a lot of people don't care
about stuff like this but if you're
someone who likes to keep their devices
clean and fingerprint free let me tell
you it is not easy on this device you
can't just wipe it with a microfiber you
need to get some water
going around the sides the ports on the
g50 one are the same and they're also in
the same locations as the UX so there's
three USB s some display outputs and an
SD card slot if you notice there's like
a red accent that's visible from the
side which runs around the whole
perimeter of the notebook so this is
actually the rubber trim from the screen
it's a simple change to switch it from a
black rubber to a red rubber but because
of the location that trim it really
changes the look of
book it's actually pretty smart I kind
of wish they'd done it in blue and like
before that SD card slot is still really
shallow and barely holds half the card
but it works mechanically the keyboard
is the same there's a number pad on the
right here which kind of shifts
everything over to the left and once
again there are arrow keys that are
surrounded by keys that you don't want
to press but aside from these two
annoyances once you get used to the
shift and positioning it's actually a
very nice keyboard to type one there are
a couple things that are different here
though first the sides of the WASD Keys
they have a red finish on them it kind
of gives up the whole gamer look and the
keyboard backlighting uses red LEDs
instead of your more standard white ones
the trackpad is the same it's a pretty
decent trackpad for Windows machines but
I don't love it I mean there's tons of
other devices with crappier trackpads
but this one's not amazing a quick look
at that bonus most that ACS gives you it
feels pretty comfortable it's got some
soft rubber on the scroll wheel and in
the thumb rust so I use it to play some
games it's a little lighter than I'm
used to and lighter than I like but it
tracks well and it's a freebie so I
can't complain ok so the screen if
you'll remember the ux 5:01 had an
extremely glossy screen it was a decent
screen otherwise but that glossy finish
was really difficult to work with in
bright light now the g50 one has a matte
screen it's 4k it's bright it's vibrant
and viewing angles are pretty good but
it's not a touchscreen if that matters
to you personally I almost never use
touch screens on notebooks and I prefer
matte finishes so I really like this
screen now when this notebook first
launched there was a really big problem
with the screen basically whenever you
played games the screen would flicker
and there'd be weird lines and stuff it
was pretty horrible now Asus finally
patched this in early August with BIOS
and now post patch I haven't seen a
single glitch of the screen in two weeks
so I'm pretty sure they fixed it color
accuracy is okay it's not amazing we're
getting a 96% srgb and 74% Adobe RGB off
of a spider I mean it's pretty similar
to the UX 5:01 but because there's no
glossy finish on that screen the viewing
experience is just better overall all
right let's talk about performance so
spec wise it's almost identical to the
UX 5:01
drive speeds are also identical just
super fast the only real difference is
that in this model the g50 one it has
four gigs of video RAM which is double
what the UX 5:01 has but after running a
bunch of tests and benchmarks it really
feels like the extra two gigs of ram
doesn't do much I mean it's almost
identical and performance in everything
I did video renders were the same even
rendering with multiple Luntz had the
same speed so that extra video RAM
didn't seem to do much for video editing
in Premiere Pro for gaming you'll have
to watch the UX pfizer one video for
full details but the extra video Ram
didn't seem to affect frame rates at all
so witcher 3 still ran poorly at 4k but
it ran smooth on medium settings again
at 1080p and less demanding games like
yours of the storm ran really smooth as
well I didn't notice any significant
improvements going from two gigs to four
gigs of RAM speakers are the same
temperatures are the same fan noise is
the same battery life is basically the
same the screen on the g50 one is a
little brighter and I imagine it would
use a little more power but I still get
around four to five hours of regular use
or watching movies and when playing
games at max brightness I was still
getting around an hour of battery life
so I chalk them up as a tie
okay so recap g50 one it's got a black
aluminum shell with red accents a matte
4k screen that isn't touch enabled but
it's still pretty nice and off center
keyboard with red LEDs that's
comfortable to use once you get used to
the position an okay trackpad 16 gigs of
ram eight of which are non-removable 512
gigs of insanely fast storage 2 down
firing speakers that sound
but not great it's got a 2.6 gigahertz
quad-core i7 and a gtx 960m
it's also housing a 96 watt hour battery
that gives about four to five hours of
regular use all for $1,500 okay so some
closing thoughts here between the UX and
the g50 one I would consider them
functionally identical the g5 is where
one has that extra gig of video RAM
which is really cool on paper but it
doesn't translate to anything useful for
the average user video renders are the
same speed games play at the same frame
rates so don't purchase the g50 one just
for that extra video ram now that being
said if I had to recommend one of these
notebooks to people just openly it would
be the g5 S or one just because of that
matte screen the glossy finish on the UX
5:01 was a little bit annoying and since
the patch the g5 zero one has been
really rock-solid and there's been no
issues with the screen so I think that's
the better of the two devices that's the
end of this video I hope you guys liked
it if you did give me some thumbs and if
you loved it give me some subs it's been
nice I'll see you guys next time